Rfc draft (#1)
jzeiders/PowerShell-RFC: 1-Draft/Cross-Platform-Out-GridView.md

---
RFC: 
Author: John Zeiders
Status: Draft
SupercededBy:
Version: 0.1
Area: Commands
Comments Due: 6/25/2019
---

# Cross Platform Out-GridView

Out-Gridview was a popular command in Windows PowerShell.

> Its dependence on Windows Graphics API's meant that it didn't make it into PowerShell Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its dependence on Windows Presentation Foundation API's meant that it didn't make it into PowerShell Core.
```

> The Out-GridView cmdlet sends the output from a command to a grid view window where the output is displayed in an interactive table.

# Motivation

The feature is a commonly cited reason for not migrating to Powershell Core and its implementation will help further adoption.

# Specification

## cmdlet

> The cmdlet will be a clone of [Out-GridView](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/out-gridview?view=powershell-5.1) as it was in PowerShell 5.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cmdlet will be a modern implementation of [Out-GridView](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/out-gridview?view=powershell-5.1) and also cross platform supported.
```

```powershell
Out-GridView
   [-InputObject <PSObject>]
   [-Title <String>]
   [-PassThru]
   [<CommonParameters>]

Out-GridView
   [-InputObject <PSObject>]
   [-Title <String>]
   [-Wait]
   [<CommonParameters>]

Out-GridView
   [-InputObject <PSObject>]
   [-Title <String>]
   [-OutputMode <OutputModeOption>]
   [<CommonParameters>]
```

## GUI

The GUI will be implemented on top of [Avalonia UI Framework](https://github.com/AvaloniaUI/Avalonia).

> The project was chosen for it's relatively wide adoption and stability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project was chosen for its active development, implemented capabilities, modeling of WPF, and cross platform support.
```

> A new feature "Show Script" will be added that will generate a PWSH sript that will emulate the filters manually added to the Out-GridView.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new feature `Show Script` will be added that will generate an equivalent PowerShell script that represents the filters manually applied to Out-GridView.
```

> The goal being to encourage better automation in repeated uses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal being to enable better automation at scale while also allowing graphical editing of filters.
```

## Module

> Out-GridView will be added to the Graphic Tools Module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out-GridView will be added to the PowerShell Graphical Tools Module Microsoft.PowerShell.GraphicalTools.
```

Forming the basis for future cross-platform graphical commands.

## Removed Features

* Search in Column - Better solved by filters

# Alternative Proposals and Considerations

## GUI Frameworks

### Electron

> Despite it's popularity as a cross-platform framework, it's slow boot times make it the wrong choice for a command that is frequently used to create confirmation and selection prompts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite its popularity as a cross-platform framework, its slow boot times make it the wrong choice for a command that is frequently used to create confirmation and selection prompts.
```

---
RFC: 
Author: John Zeiders
Status: Draft
SupercededBy:
Version: 0.1
Area: Commands
Comments Due: 6/25/2019
---

# Cross Platform Out-GridView

> Out-Gridview was a popular command in Windows PowerShell.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Out-GridView was a popular command in Windows PowerShell.
```

> Its dependence on Windows Presentation Foundation API's meant that it didn't make it into PowerShell Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its dependence on Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) APIs meant that it didn't make it into PowerShell Core.
```

> The Out-GridView cmdlet sends the output from a command to a grid view window where the output is displayed in an interactive table.

# Motivation

> The feature is a commonly cited reason for not migrating to Powershell Core and its implementation will help further adoption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The feature is a commonly cited reason for not migrating to PowerShell Core and its implementation will help further adoption.
```

# Specification

## cmdlet

The cmdlet will be a modern implementation of [Out-GridView](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/out-gridview?view=powershell-5.1) and also cross platform supported.

```powershell
Out-GridView
   [-InputObject <PSObject>]
   [-Title <String>]
   [-PassThru]
   [<CommonParameters>]

Out-GridView
   [-InputObject <PSObject>]
   [-Title <String>]
   [-Wait]
   [<CommonParameters>]

Out-GridView 
   [-InputObject <PSObject>]
   [-Title <String>]
   [-OutputMode <OutputModeOption>]
   [<CommonParameters>]
```

## GUI

The GUI will be implemented on top of [Avalonia UI Framework](https://github.com/AvaloniaUI/Avalonia).
The project was chosen for its active development, implemented capabilities, modeling of WPF, and cross platform support.

A new feature `Show Script` will be added that will generate an equivalent PowerShell script that represents the filters manually applied to Out-GridView.
The goal being to enable better automation at scale while also allowing graphical editing of filters.

> Wireframe of the new design.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Wireframe of the new design

```

The wireframe is intended for visual reference, it is **not** a pixel perfect representation.
The most important part to note is the new layout for filters as opposed to the original "Criteria Panel".

![Out-GridViewMockup](../assets/Out-GridView/out_gridview_mockup.png)

## Module

> Out-GridView will be added to the PowerShell Graphical Tools Module Microsoft.PowerShell.GraphicalTools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Out-GridView will be added to the PowerShell graphical tools module `Microsoft.PowerShell.GraphicalTools`,
```

> Forming the basis for future cross-platform graphical commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
forming the basis for future cross-platform graphical commands.
```
